# *this* & Object Prototypes

> [阅读链接](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/1st-ed/this%20&%20object%20prototypes/README.md#you-dont-know-js-this--object-prototypes)



:bulb: JS 的原始类型（primitive）除了 `object` 外有七种[^1]，除了 `typeof null` 的结果是 `object` 以外，其余都是自己对应的类型。值得注意的是 `function` 并非 primitive，它属于 `object` 类型，但它的 `typeof` 是 `function`.

## Chapter 2: `this` All Makes Sense Now!

:bulb: `this` 依赖于 `call-site`。call-site: the location in code where a function is called (**not where it's declared**).

:bulb: Now, we can summarize the rules for determining `this` from a function call's call-site, in their order of precedence. Ask these questions in this order, and stop when the first rule applies.

1. Is the function called with `new` (**new binding**)? If so, `this` is the newly constructed object.

   `var bar = new foo()`

2. Is the function called with `call` or `apply` (**explicit binding**), even hidden inside a `bind` *hard binding*? If so, `this` is the explicitly specified object.

   `var bar = foo.call( obj2 )`

3. Is the function called with a context (**implicit binding**), otherwise known as an owning or containing object? If so, `this` is *that* context object.

   `var bar = obj1.foo()`

4. Otherwise, default the `this` (**default binding**). If in `strict mode`, pick `undefined`, otherwise pick the `global` object.

   `var bar = foo()`

That's it. That's *all it takes* to understand the rules of `this` binding for normal function calls. Well... almost.

:bulb: Instead of the four standard binding rules, ES6 **arrow-functions** use **lexical scoping** for `this` binding, which means they adopt the `this` binding (whatever it is) from its enclosing function call. They are essentially a syntactic replacement of `self = this` in pre-ES6 coding. eg:

```js
function foo() {
	// return an arrow function
	return (a) => {
		// `this` here is lexically adopted from `foo()`
		console.log( this.a );
	};
}

var obj1 = {
	a: 2
};

var obj2 = {
	a: 3
};

var bar = foo.call( obj1 );
bar.call( obj2 ); // 2, not 3!
```

## Chapter 5: Prototypes



[^1]: https://masteringjs.io/tutorials/fundamentals/primitives